So far we only have created one simple blog post model.
But as we will create more sometimes we will also need to relate them somehow to each other.
So for example a blog post can have comments or it can have images or like in this case the outer can
have his profile where for example he might keep his settings.
Now the one to one relation that we'll talk about in this lecture is one of the simplest relations.
And as you can see on this diagram the one outer can only have one profile not more while outer cannot
have two profiles or more and the same is with profiles.
Profiles cannot be the same profile cannot be assigned to two outers.
It has to be assigned to exactly one hour or so.
This is simple now let's take a look at how is the database design going to look like.
So we have these two models out or end profile.
Of course the outer would be the outer stable end profile the profile stable.
And we haven't put a lot of fields on them.
It's just an example.
But you might notice that on the profile we have the outer I.D..
So this is where our relation would be kept.
And though there are reasons for this why we put that out or idea on profile and not the profile idea
on the outer.
It's because the profile cannot really exist on itself.
So in the sense of this relations when you have an out or only then the outer can have a profile and
a profile with some settings and preferences without an outer makes no sense.
Now this is how you define relations in Laredo will implement that in a bit.
So we'll be adding functions to our model and they can be named.
However you like just you need to use this specific methods from the base model class to tell Lavell
how the relation looks like.
So in case of the profile as I said it has a profile.
So we will use has one and then on the other side of the relation the profile belongs to our mouth or
so we can call that belongs to with the fully qualified class name of the related model.
Now we'll also create migrations and we have to do that manually.
We can only generate the basic boilerplate for us and they are basically almost the same up to this
point where we create the outer I.D. on that profile stable and notice that it is unsigned integer because
we will hold the I.D. of the outdoor table inside it.
And also this field would have to be unique.
That's the whole point of the one to one relation we want every profile that is bank inserted to be
unique.
So you can't have one profile assigned to more than one out or.
And we are also adding another database constraint called foreign key.
And what this will force that database is to every outer I.D. column inside every row on the profiles
table would have to contain a valid I.D. of the row on that outer stable.
So it's a pretty simple concept and it will four beat us inserting any records with the outer I.D. field
that would be new or inserting a row with any other outer I.D. value than row that exists inside the
outer stable.
So you will see how that works in a bit.
So now let's go ahead and create our models.
We'll do that inside visual studio called terminal so we'll run the peach bee artisan make model comment
first will create the outer model and we want it created along with the migration and then we will immediately
create another model which is the profile.
And we also want it created without with the migration.
So here they are the outer model and the profile model so now we have to add the methods inside out
or we have public function profile and this will return the value of this has one up profile save the
changes and the other side of the relation would also be a method we can call it outer and we will return
the result of this belongs to method and specify the class as the up outdoor case that we have the relations
defined.
Now let's go to the migration.
So the first one is create outers table.
So as I've said we won't be putting any fields to it.
So this migration is good enough but we will actually create out our idea field on the profiles table
so we want to create an unsigned integer so an integer that starts from zero.
And we will call that column out or I.D..
And additionally we want the unique constraint on it.
So each individual row inside this table has to have a unique outer I.D. column.
And finally will the foreign key which is also outer I.D. So we specify the name of the column.
We would like to add as a foreign key and lot of our will just come up with automatic name for it.
So we don't really have to worry about naming your foreign I.D..
And this is great because if you will just specify the column name then you can also drop the foreign
key if you would like to move the migration down by specifying a column I.D. instead of differing key
name.
Now the foreign key is referencing the I.D. field
on the outers table.
So that's it.
We have the model and migrations define.
Now let's run this by by typing peach P artisan migrate so the BHP artisan migrate have run both migrations.
Now let's see how the database table looks looks like.
So we have the outer stable.
You can see that it has on the I.D. and the timestamps and also we have profiles in this case it has
the I.D. timestamps and the outer I.D..
Now what I said about the foreign key.
Let's try to check this.
So we will be trying to insert something into the profiles tables so let's imagine.
I'd like to assign the outer with I.D. one to this profile and see what happens.
So you can see that we have error and it's due to our foreign key because you have noticed that I haven't
added an outer yet to this outers table and that's why we can't add entry into the profile stable because
it really has to have a valid I.D. that already exists on the outer stable
OK.
So that would be it for this lecture.
And in the next one I will show you how you can read those relations and also how you can assign them
both using the outer model and the profile model.